Useful Resources

Below is a compilation of web links. Hopefully these resources will help improve your learning experience.
Informative Web Sites

    Java Applets for Machine Learning Note: The applets are in German ** Page not accesible. Message: The page you want to visit cannot be displayed.
    A Brief Introduction to Machine Learning by Gunnar Ratsch
    CS229 Machine Learning - Stanford - This is the Stanford CS course on Machine Learning that Prof Ng has taught for a number of years. The material parallels the Coursera course, but covers some additional topics and goes into much more depth on the mathematics.
    Dive into Machine Learning compiles a variety of resources, taking a hack-first approach so you can get "hooked." Prof. Ng's course is the centerpiece.
    Cornell Virtual Workshop Training on programming languages, parallel computing, code improvement, and data analysis.

Linear Algebra

    Introduction to Linear Algebra
    CS 229 Section notes on Linear Algebra
    Free linear algebra book with solutions

Writing Equations in Forum Posts

    Short Guide to LaTex Math Here is a quick guide to entering equations using LaTeX. The directives are inserted between two dollar signs. For example, the fraction for one half is entered as \$\$ \frac{1}{2}\$\$ ,(without any escapes before the dollar signs) and displays as 12\frac{1}{2}2

    1​.
    LaTex Math Tutorial

Online E-Books

    Introduction to Machine Learning by Nils J. Nilsson
    Introduction to Machine Learning by Alex Smola and S.V.N. Vishwanathan
    Introduction to Data Science by Jeffrey Stanton The link appears to be dead, here is another.
    Bayesian Reasoning and Machine Learning by David Barber
    Understanding Machine Learning, © 2014 by Shai Shalev-Shwartz and Shai Ben-David
    Elements of Statistical Learning, by Hastie, Tibshirani, and Friedman
    Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning, by Christopher M. Bishop

Textbook information

    (none)

Advanced classes online

    Andrew Ng's advanced lectures - YouTube
    Machine Learning - CosmoLearning
    Machine Learning - AcademicEarth
    Learning from Data - Caltech
    Machine Learning - MIT
    Machine Learning - U. of Washington - via Coursera
    Big Data, Large Scale Machine Learning - NYU (not a MOOC)
    Machine Learning UBC 2013 - Youtube
    Neural Networks Demystified

Machine Learning frameworks and libraries in Python

    PyBrain: Various machine learning algorithms for Python programmers. Focuses on neural networks.
    PyML: Machine Learning object oriented framework for Linux and Mac OS X focused on classification and regression by Asa Ben-Hur.
    scikit-learn: Comprehensive Machine Learning toolkit for Python (based on SciPy with numpy and mathplotlib). "Ipython -pylab" provides interactive environment like Octave - scikit-learn provides optimized implementations of pretty well everything (using fast libraries like liblinear and libsvm). Should be used instead of Octave for research prototyping, production and especially for education.
    tensor-flow: open source software library for machine learning. 

Machine Learning frameworks and libraries in C++

    mlpack: a scalable C++ machine learning library.
    SHARK: a fast, modular, feature-rich open-source C++ machine learning library.
    Dlib-ml: A Machine Learning Toolkit.
    Waffles: A collection of command-line tools for researchers in machine learning, data mining, and related fields. All of the functionality is also provided in a clean C++ class library.
    MLC++: a library of C++ classes for supervised machine learning.

Machine Learning frameworks and libraries in Java

    Weka: A collection of machine learning algorithms for data mining tasks.
    Apache Mahout: A scalable machine learning library .
    LIBLINEAR : LIBLINEAR -- A Library for Large Linear Classification. I think this link was mentioned in one of the lectures.
    Deeplearning4j: Open-source, distributed, deep-learning library for the JVM. Integrated with Hadoop and Spark, DL4J is designed to be used on distributed GPUs and CPUs.

Machine Learning Data Sets

    Links to many ML data repositories
    UCI Machine Learning Repository - Univ of California Irvine
    Kaggle: Machine Learning and data mining activities
    COCO-Text: Dataset for Text Detection and Recognition

Octave packages

    http://octave.sourceforge.net/ GNU Octave packages development and repository.

Octave online

    http://octave-online.net/

Translation Projects

    Mexico Study Group Notes

Useful papers

    Massive collection of academic papers are available here: Machine Learning Library.

General

    Domingos, Pedro. "A few useful things to know about machine learning." Communications of the ACM 55, no. 10 (2012): 78-87
    Shewchuk, Jonathan Richard. "An Introduction to the Conjugate Gradient Method Without the Agonizing Pain." 1994
    To understand cost functions better An Introduction To Understanding Cost Functions

Boosting

    Friedman, J. H. "Greedy Function Approximation: A Gradient Boosting Machine." (Feb. 1999a)
    Ridgeway, Greg. "Generalized Boosted Models: A guide to the gbm package." Update 1 (2007): 1.
    Rojas, Raúl. "AdaBoost and the Super Bowl of Classifiers A Tutorial Introduction to Adaptive Boosting." Freie University, Berlin (2009).

Outlier and Anomaly Detection

    Chandola, Varun, Arindam Banerjee, and Vipin Kumar. "Outlier detection: A survey." ACM Computing Surveys, to appear (2007).
    Kriegel, Hans-Peter, Peer Kröger, and Arthur Zimek. "Outlier detection techniques." In Tutorial at the 13th Pacific-Asia Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining. 2009.

SVM

    "An Idiot's Guide to Support Vector Machines"

http://web.mit.edu/6.034/wwwbob/svm-notes-long-08.pdf
Interesting applications

    Castillo, Carlos, Marcelo Mendoza, and Barbara Poblete. "Information credibility on Twitter." In Proceedings of the 20th international conference on World wide web, pp. 675-684. ACM, 2011.
    Norman, Kenneth A., Sean M. Polyn, Greg J. Detre, and James V. Haxby. "Beyond mind-reading: multi-voxel pattern analysis of fMRI data."Trends in cognitive sciences 10, no. 9 (2006): 424-430.
    Pereira, Francisco, Tom Mitchell, and Matthew Botvinick. "Machine learning classifiers and fMRI: a tutorial overview." Neuroimage 45, no. 1 Suppl (2009): S199.
    Dean Pomerleau Autonomous Driving (link)

Deep Learning School, Sept. 2016 (URL includes links to video archives)

https://www.bayareadlschool.org/